## Project NEXTSTEP
In my spring semester of 2021, I was a part of a unique senior design experience entitled Project NEXTSTEP. All work and meetings in the class were entirely online, 
which proved to be a challenge for group work and communication. Additionally, instead of a traditional senior design in a small group of 10 or less, the entire class of 90 seniors were all working on the same project, and we were broken up into subteams within the one project goal. Instead of a regular group project, collaborating with this many people was akin to working at a small aerospace company.

The goal of Project NEXTSTEP was to establish a lunar colony over a 10 year period with an annual budget of 10 billion dollars. The focus of the design was to maximize comfort of
the lunar colonists and to also maximize the number of colonists on the base. Working under Dr. James Longuski, our team got to work researching and designing the lunar base for 
our primary 'customer' Dr. Andrew Aldrin. 

I was assigned to the CAD subteam of the project and my team, and I were responsible for creating detailed and accurate 3D CAD SOLIDWORKS models of all systems, habitats, and vehicles present 
on the lunar base. This entailed communicating across different subteams to get an idea of what system they wanted to create with given restraints such as mass and volume, since all systems needed to be sent up in launch vehicles such as the Falcon Heavy and the Space X Starship. Since most subteams were focused on the research and raw numbers for systems and vehicles, the systems engineering needed to bind these ideas into a cohesive design fell upon the CAD team, which led to a lot of liaison work between subteams to ensure everyone was working on a consistent design.

The majority of my work was done with the Human Factors subteam, who were responsible for maintaining the physiological, mental, and physical health of all the colonists. I helped research and design a gym module for the lunar base, using current era NASA ISS exercise equipment as my starting point. I remodeled the CEVIS cycling machine, the COLBERT treadmill, and the ARED resistance machine. I modified these machines to better suite the light gravity of the Moon, removing anti vibrational equipment that was needed for the ISS and adding seats to some machines to account for the gravity of the Moon. I also designed the Human Research Facility Rack, which is a research cabinet that housed a ultrasound, physiological equipment, and research equipment. This system would act as a physical examination station for the colonists as well as a place to house research projects. 

Finally, my subteam was responsible for creating the final video to be shown to our customers. In order to do this, we used Blender to animate our 3D models that we had made over the semester to help demonstrate how each system worked to customers and others who are unfamiliar with the project. Below you can find images to models I made, links to my final animation, and a link to the class website of the project.  
